Starting from the second stage, we begin serious work on the opening of the middle channel Chung-May, passing in our body through the Baihui and Hui Yin points, as well as through all three Dan Tians. We begin to build a path for our soul, a path by which it will be able in the future to go beyond the limits of our physical body and come back. Only from the moment of receiving the experience of the real exit of the soul from the body does the insistent spiritual training begin.
<p> Another goal of developing the median channel is to increase the amount of energy entering the brain area. Energy produces corresponding changes in it, the brain begins to work faster, the strength of the physical body increases, the person becomes more active, more mobile. The middle Dan Tian is associated with spiritual strength. This spiritual power can be transformed into the power of love, not ordinary love but great love. This means that everyone can feel your love.
<p> <b> The Changzo Health Aspect</b>
<p> In the lower Dan Tian region are the kidneys. The kidneys belong to the elements of water. Qi of water is cool. The Yuan Jing energy, prenatal energy, is also based in the kidney area.
<p> If the qi of water is cold, then it drops down, causing swelling of the legs. The kidneys are hard to work. If the kidneys do not work well - the legs hurt, the back as well and the is headache. A person quickly grows old and at the age of 50 can look like a decrepit old man.
<p> In the middle Dan Tian there is a heart - the element of fire. If these two elements have no connection, heart problems often arise. Moving a ball and establishing a connection between Dan Tians is also called "raising the water to the fire and lowering the fire into the water." Water warms and rises. At the same time, swelling of limbs goes away, leg fatigue is removed, the kidneys start to work better, the heart function improves.
<p> Zhong Dan Tian is called "a window to the sky." Opening it is accompanied by pain or discomfort. Therefore, when practicing the middle Dan Tian (the third exercise) and when moving a ball with concentration, in the middle Dan Tian you can feel pain in the heart area, sometimes very noticeable, even if the heart is healthy. Then it passes and the practitioner feels light and energized. The thymus gland which controls the body's immune properties is also located in the middle Dan Tian region. The practice of middle Dan Tian enhances immunity and resistance to diseases.
<p> If you want to recover from some kind of diseases or just to improve your health, you can sit in the usual way - on a chair or in Turkish. But if you want to reach the highest levels of practice, then the lotus position is necessary, because all five major points - Laogong, Yunquan and Baihui with certain exercises must be turned upwards. This becomes important after we fully open the Jung-Mai channel and the Baihui and Huiyin points.