<p> This exercise allows you to conduct the energy of the ball not only through the energy channels, but also through all the tissues of the body completely: through the vessels, muscles, tendons, bones, organs ...
<p> The pace of this exercise should be such that a pause in breathing at the time this ball is held through the body is not burdensome (too long) for the practitioner. At the same time, breathing should be even and calm - without sharp, convulsive inhalations or exhalations. If the breath hold is too big for you, you need to speed up the movement of the ball through the body. But as you practice, inhaling and exhaling will occur less and less: breathing rate decreases, because during this exercise the body is saturated with oxygen. After a while, 5 breaths and breaths per minute become the norm.
<p> The fifth preparatory exercise can be practiced for an arbitrarily long time - for an hour or more each day.
<p> <b> Related Effects and Phenomena </b>
<p> After a few days of practice, you can feel the energy flowing through the whole body like a wave, in one direction and then in the other, feel how the body is constantly being washed by these flows.
<p> At a certain stage, this exercise can cause pain even in a healthy person. This is due to the fact that if there are no problems in the body, then its transformation is also accompanied by pain: first there are changes in the fatty layer, then the bones start to hurt - they change: the calluses dissolve in the places of fractures, the bruises are restored, etc. If there were skin problems, then after a while the skin is completely replaced. The quality of the pain that arises in all these cases is different from the usual pain, and when it passes, these places are felt as if weightless.
<p> But if you cannot categorize yourself as a practically healthy person, if you have a lot of problems and illnesses, then the reasons you already know cause the painful effect: when a sufficient amount of energy comes in from the outside, narrowed or blocked channels begin to open in the body...
<p> If you have serious problems with bone tissue and internal organs, then it is necessary to practice the 5th preparatory exercise for a long time.
<p> At first, the sensations may not appear until enough energy is accumulated inside. But if you do this exercise every day at least 100 times, after a few days or a week you will feel strong energy inside, which will begin to transform your body.
<p> It is very important for the treatment of problem areas to feel the appearance of a hot rotating yin-yang-ball in them. If you feel only heat, try to mentally strengthen it and imagine that there is a rotating hot ball. After a while these sensations will appear.