From the first stage we begin to practice unity with heaven and earth (this exercise is the Big Tree). We intensively continue this practice at the second stage (again the Big Tree exercise, but also add the fifth preparatory exercise and skin breathing). And further step by step, until we feel that we and the cosmos are a single whole. Then a person becomes complete, then he or she) begins to understand what he is, what nature and the universe is, its components, its development path, and the development path of man himself and humanity which means “living” in the broad terms from the point of evolution.
<p>At the stage I we learned how to accumulate and concentrate energy. The tasks of the second stage are to transform this energy into force, into power, so that it can produce changes in the physical body. This happens in the middle Dan Tian. Without such a transformation of your energy it is impossible to change the physical body.
<p>At the second stage we will practice qi in order to increase and activate it inside our body. If it is concentrated in a very small volume, then it becomes approximately the same as sunlight focused by a lens. Therefore it is necessary to learn how to concentrate our qi, otherwise it will be scattered outward. Many people see the qi on the first stage like a fog. Qi of the second stage is similar to light. One of the goals of the stage II is to transform your own energy into power.
<p>Other goal of the second stage is to start building a path for the conscious withdrawal of our soul from the body — to open a section of the Chung-Mai channel between the lower and middle  Dan Tian. When the soul goes out consciously, you can see the different levels of the cosmos and your place in it. Then it becomes clear what happens when a person dies and what happens when he is born. And before we really die, it would be good not only to know all this but also to be able to move to the desired place seeing and choosing it for yourself in advance.
<p>At the first stage we practiced a state of relaxation. At the second stage we will practice the state of calm and silence of the physical body and consciousness stopping the mental flow. You can achieve a lot by learning how to relax: you can improve your health, quickly recover from serious physical, mental and nervous stress. But only by learning how to enter the state of silence of the mind, you can make a breakthrough in the area of ​​special abilities and reach the highest levels of qigong.

