Working with the middle Dan Tian increases the strength of mind and will, enhances immunity. People who feel weakness or heaviness in the heart, should exercise the Big Tree in the second stage.
<p> At the stage II, we practice the area in the vicinity of the Changchen point - tailbone area. This area is very important, because through it energy flows directly into the brain, and the mental state of a person and his (her) psychological problems depend on it.
<p> If this area is open, the energy can freely rise up the spinal cord. Such a person is usually resistant to stressful situations - psychologically stable. Such a person does not have an irrational feeling of fear. He knows that there is nothing he can’t do, he takes a proactive attitude in life. If the energy flows freely through the channels and nourishes the brain well, then the person is healthy, his body is healthy. If the zone of middle Dan Tian is active, then the healing ability increases dramatically, in which case the person can heal very well. If energy is not enough, all sorts of problems arise including with the liver, intestines ... From the Qigong point of view it is being said that such a person has unclean blood.
<p> When practicing the Big Tree, in the second stage, the energy no longer goes through the back, but through the spinal cord inside the spinal channels to the head. If the posture is correct, then the practitioner feels a strong flow of energy. In this case, light flashes may occur in the head. You also first feel the warmth in the middle Dan Tian at the beginning, which then turns into heat. And after a while you also begin to feel that this heat rises. Many people can feel the heartbeat. In addition with this practice the emotional state can change: sometimes there is a feeling of deep sadness, sometimes anger and irritation, sometimes - happiness.
<p> <i> Attention: if you suffer from hemorrhoids, then after lowering the qi ball into the lower Dan Tian, you must perform the Small Celestial Circle with the help of breathing and with the obligatory retracting of the anus during inhalation.