It is well known that practically all substances needed by our body to function are found in the air. We require water – there are a lot of water vapor in the air. We require carbonate gas, it can be found in the air in large quantities as well. And our intestines are able to receive and absorb these substances.
<p>In this practice we study the rebirth and development of the functions of the navel. After birth the direct connection with our physical mother is broken, but at the same time we pass over to our new Great Mother — Nature. Bigu Shiqi practice described above makes it possible to receive energy from our Great Mother.
<p>There are no time limits on the Bigu Shiqi exercise. You can practice it sitting, lying down, standing, walking, and so on… it is necessary to remember that if you’ve opened your navel, you must not later forget to close it.
<p>When this exercise is performed, changes in the body occur quickly, and you can soon enter the state of quietness and pause.
<p><b>Healthy and developing effect</b>
<p>This exercise is very useful for the development of the immune system. Our immune system is connected not only with certain cells in the blood and the lymphatic system, but also with the energy system.
<p>When you breath with your navel, oxygen directly and immediately gets to your blood. That’s why when there are cardiovascular disturbances, a preinfarction condition or heart attack, stroke, diabetes, high cholesterol or obesity, the body must be saturated with oxygen. In such instances, breathing with the navel is particularly useful. The practice of Bigu Shiqi provides the chance to restore and strengthen the weakened functioning of the navel, forcing it to work to reduce the likelihood of these illnesses.
<p>With Bigu Shiqi, cholesterin will never appear in your blood, since you won’t be eating fat. At the same time, your brain is always fresh and works well, not only in the morning after rest but throughout the day. As a side effect of this practice, your weight will meet what is considered standard.
<p>If you’re really able to practice Bigu Shiqi over a month or two, your body will completely change. You will be able to feel that you’ve become significantly younger.