In the third stage we activate the development of the upper Dan Tian. The upper Dan Tian is the zone where our mind is located, in general. As we work with the upper Dan Tian, we open the Mingtang point between the eyebrows. At the same time, a person experiences various sensations. At first there’s pressure at the Mingtang point between the eyebrows. This pressure can sharply increase, and after still more time you may see flashes similar to lightning. In the next phase you’ll see light in front of you, but the flashes will be of different colors. With further practice, during meditation or simply in a dark room, you’ll see weak illumination, but not darkness. And if you close your eyes, a bright light will appear within you. That’s when the Third Eye will begin functioning.
<p>If not only your body but also your consciousness enters the state of Quietness, you’ll be able to see what’s very far from you. For this, you must enter the state of calm and Silence of Mind. At this point, some practitioners begin to see various kinds of pictures, landscapes, and beings from other worlds… In these situations, don’t try to focus your attention on the pictures or on the phenomena that manifest themselves to you. Continue practicing and then, having attained the next level in practice, you’ll be able to move further, actually to worlds of a higher level.
<p>Practicing Big Tree exercise of the third stage helps develop sensations similar to those manifesting themselves during the exiting of the soul. This exercise allows your soul to go outside, but not completely, and for a very short time. That’s why during Big Tree practice you need to look at your second self standing in front of you while you practice the third stage Big Tree.
<p><i>Attention: people with high blood pressure shouldn’t hold their hands opposite the upper Dan Tian and need to practice Big Tree in the position of stage I or stage II.  Although, imagine and try to see your second self standing in the same pose and practicing the same Big Tree.</i>