One of the main goals of the 3rd stage of practice is to learn how to enter the state of pause. A pause is a special state of the body. It looks like total relaxation and immobility, although at the same time there is a movement inside which allows you to harmonize all the systems of our body and bring them in accordance with external energy flows in the universe, with its laws. It means that we have to get to a state of more and more deep quietness until suddenly our mind stops thinking.
<p>During this state our consciousness may change, our wisdom and intellect develops. Only in the state of pause our soul is able to leave the body and see what the world in which we live is like. Only then it is possible to understand who we are, where we came from and for what reason.
<p>In order to achieve the state of pause and give our soul an opportunity to go outside, we have to fulfill several conditions.
<p>- The most important thing is the need to be healthy. Our physical body has to have the opportunity to be in a state of Quietness. This means that we need to be free of any pain or discomfort by adjusting our health. You won’t be able to achieve the state of pause if you’re in pain; you’re tormented by a cough; breathing is difficult; or you can’t sit motionless in one position for a long time.
<p>- Breathing with the body must be worked out, so that you can get a sufficient amount of oxygen. Breathing with the body is also a preparation, a necessary aspect for entering the state of pause.
<p>- The body must be capable of receiving nutrition automatically. Consequently, we have to develop what we call the second respiratory and digestive system. When we develop breathing and nutrition through the navel (the Bigu Shiqi practice), we thereby develop the second digestive system. If all these conditions are satisfied, it’s possible to enter the state of pause for a long time.
<p>- Besides this, it’s necessary to open the central channel Zhong-Mai and create the way through which the soul can leave the body.
<p>-The gates through which the soul goes out must be opened.
<p>- We have to have a lot of energy. A lot of Qi in our body helps us to calm down. This is why we have to accumulate energy.